Hello everyone.
Welcome back.
In the last lesson we learn how to create a different view for each unique post of our field.
In today's lesson we go a little further by enabling a comment form for these pages.
First let's open up one of her posts for editing.
I'm going to show you something that goes unnoticed for most WordPress users here at the top.
I have this little drop down menu screen options which most people don't even know about in this menu.
You'll notice that there is a series of checkboxes.
Each one of them allows us to enable or disable some editing area here of the page.
In fact we call these areas metal boxes.
So every check box here lets you hide our show and letterbox.
One of these metal boxes is called discussion.
I'll show you here on the page.
It's this one here.
It allows us to define where the comments will be open or not for a specific post.
If you click here we end up disabling comments for this particular post.
Let's check this and say we don't want comments for this post so no visitor can comment on this post.
Ok same thing works for pages.
They may or may not allow comments for any pages within WordPress.
Well this explanation is important in order to understand the code that you'll be using should call
the comments form within the post and thus allow our visitors to interact with our content.
So let's open up our Singo that page befoul
and here before the loop is finished let's perform a check.
Let's create a nice block.
Let's close it out here.
With an end if so we will not have any problems in the future.
And here inside the parenthesis we want to check if comments are open for the post which is the one
that is being displayed at the moment by the Word Press loop.
Let's also call another function that lets us know how many comments we have for this post.
Ok if comments open we're going to call the comments form.
At this point we do this by calling the comments template function well.
What this function.
Basically this is Rander a standard comment form on the screen.
In order for this to work you need to have a file called comments that should be at the root of our
theme's folder.
If you don't have that file it pressed for use a fallback file it has the same name.
Comments not DHP taken from its default theme.
That's one of the reasons why removing this default WordPress themes is not recommended.
You never know when you need them.
So what you're going to do now is to get a copy of that file taken from the 2016 theme and create a
new one at the root of all themes folder.
For this lesson I'm not going to create a new market for this file but it can do that later.
As an exercise.
OK.
Of course if you want it right.
The fact is that many things developers do the same.
They just make a copy of the default comments template file and add it to their own themes and there's
nothing wrong with that.
Actually many things that can be downloaded from the Wordpress repository itself are made this way so
I'll go ahead and create a file called comments that BHB
and paste everything you just copied in there let's save this file and let's open a post
we start by opening a post where comments are allowed.
For example this one here look at it we have in our comments form as I am logged into the site you see
that the form is displayed like this.
Now if I log off they have a slightly different form.
And now you see a form with different fields.
Now if I want to comment I have to give more details like my name my e-mail etc..
Now let's use that post.
We decided it wouldn't be open for comments.
And as comments are not open for this post we simply don't have the post form displaying on it but it
won't change that.
Let's open this post for comments then.
Now reloading the page we have the form to make comments but the first thing is not display in any form.
It may be that your installation is completely closed for comments.
You can check many other rules related to the discussion within your site by going over to settings
discussion.
For example here you can find that my site will not accept comments so regardless of the individual
settings of each post or page your site will never accept comments from visitors causing it.
So I have an exercise to propose you copy everything you have in your comments that page file and make
a new file out of it and then make any changes in your new file.
For example you can move tags from one place to another.
It can remove some feuds you name it then call this modified file inside the common template function
to do that.
You can simply pass the file name inside single quotation marks starting with a slash and see what happens.
That's it.
We'll be back in the next lesson then.
Peace out.